@Diminishing Returns
Some stats have diminishing returns - this means that the more instance you have of the stat, the less it adds up. To clarify with an example: with an additive stat it would look like this: 8%+8%+8% = 24%. With a diminishing stat it would look like this: 1-(0.92 * 0.92 * 0.92) = 22%. The loss is larger the more you add to it. The following stats have diminishing returns:
[list]
*Damage Reduction
*Companion Damage Reduction
*Evasion
*Cooldown Reduction
*Mana Cost Reduction
*Effect Duration
*Reach
*Damage Stagger
*Mana Shield
*Willpower (negative effect duration)
[/list]
@Health
How much damage you can take before you die.
@Mana
This is a resource that is drained when you use skills.
@Damage
This is your base damage, elemental bonuses are applied on top of this number.
@Attack Speed
This is how fast you will be able to attack. It affects the animation speed of your attacks, so skills with low cooldown can be performed faster. It also allows you to move sooner after attacking, as the animation completes faster.
@Overpower
This is a resistance piercing stat. Overpower, like Resistances, only affects direct damage, so Thorns and other effects that do not trigger on-hit effects are unaffected by both Overpower and enemy resistances. Example: an Overpower value of 50% will ignore 50% of all foes resistances. (Meaning a foe with 30% Fire Resistance will be treated as if having 15%)
@Reach
This stat increases the effective range, radius, and distance used by all skills.
@Rage (Berserker Only)
Rage is a unique stat used by the Berserker. It increases when you take damage, deal damage, and kill foes. Gibbing foes add extra Rage, too! Rage will improve some passive skills and the Berserker's special "Heritage" skills. Rage fades slowly over time.
@Souls (Warlock only)
Souls is a unique stat used by the Warlock. You collect Souls by killing foes, and can sacrifice them to activate Utility skills, or hold on to them to empower some passive skills. Souls fade over time!
@Damage Reduction
Reduces damage taken from all sources, scales multiplicatively rather than additively.
@Evasion
Evasion gives a chance to completely avoid damage from most direct hits. It is primarily used by the Warden and Warlock. Scales multiplicatively rather than additively.
@Damage Stagger
This is a special stat that deals some of the damage received over 3 seconds rather than instantly, giving you an increased time to recover from damage. It also has a base damage reduction of 30%, so the damage that is staggered over time only actually deals 70% of what it is. Scales multiplicatively rather than additively. The staggered damage is applied directly to health and will ignore any protective barriers etc. Be sure to scale your health regeneration accordingly!
@Block Rate and Damage Blocked (Templar Only)
These stats indicate your chance to block an attack, and if you block, how much the damage is reduced. Any attack can be blocked as long as you have a Shield equipped!
@Critical Hit Chance
This indicates how high your chance is to score a Critical Hit, dealing extra damage.
@Critical Hit Damage
This indicates how much damage your Critical Hits will do in comparison to regular strikes.
@Movement Speed
This is how fast you can run.
@Elemental Damage stats (Physical, Fire, Frost, etc..)
These stats show how much extra damage you do with skills of certain elements.
@What is "Ethereal Damage"?
This is a special damage type typically found on Legendary item special powers. It ignores all enemy resistances and benefits from all your Elemental Damage stats added together. This means it works for almost any character and can be very, very powerful!
Note: Bleed damage is considered Ethereal in the sense that it's not resistible, although it does not benefit from elemental powers, and has its own scaling stat instead (See Bleed%).
@Thorns
This is a special damage stat that is dealt to enemies when they strike you. Thorns is considered to be Physical damage unless otherwise specified. Thorns damage can crit, but is considered indirect damage and does not need Overpower to scale through enemy resistances.
@Health per second
How much Health you restore per second
@Mana per second
How much Mana you restore per second
@Health on hit
How much Health you restore on a hit, minimum. The larger your hit, the more you will restore. Note that Health on hit has a cooldown of 0.1 seconds.
@Mana on hit
How much Mana you restore on a hit, minimum. The larger your hit, the more you will restore. Note that Mana on hit has a cooldown of 0.1 seconds.
@Potion Effectiveness
How effective your Healing and Mana potions are. Increase this number and they will heal you more!
@Knockback Chance
How high your chance is per strike to knock away foes.
@Resistances (Physical, Fire, Frost, etc.)
These stats show how much less damage you take from all sources of the matching element. Note that all resistances are capped at 80%.
@Cooldown Reduction
How much time is removed from your skill cooldowns. Caps at 90%. Scales multiplicatively rather than additively.
@Mana Cost Reduction
How much of the Mana cost is removed from your skill usage. Scales multiplicatively rather than additively.
@Effect Duration
How long buffs (positive effects) and spells will last. No cap, but scales multiplicatively rather than additively.
@Pickup Strength
This stat affects how much Health- and Mana pickups will heal you.
@Pickup Radius
This stat affects the distance of which Health, Mana, and Crystal pickups will be automatically taken. Your companions also use this stat when picking up pickups!
This stat also increases the range of Radial Loot (default key: Q)
@Crystals Found
This stat increases the amount of Crystals you gain from all sources except vendors.
@Magic Find
This stat increases the likelihood that you will find more rare items and items fitting your class. It caps off at 999%.
@Light Radius
This stat affects the light surrounding your character.
@Experience Gained
This stat affects how much Experience you gain from all sources. This affects both regular levels and Mastery levels.
@Companion Health
This stat directly increases the Health stat of all your Companions.
@Companion Damage
This stat directly affects the Damage stat of all your Companions.
@Companion Passive and Use Effect
This stat increases the effect of any passive bonuses granted by companions, such as stat boosts and auras. It also increases the "Use" effect of all companion skills. For example, a companion that has a spell cast listed as its "Use" effect will deal increased damage with that spell proportional to this stat.
@Burn Damage
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause a Burn damage effect on foes. It is considered Fire damage and is increased by the Fire Damage stat, too. NOTE: This stat does not affect skills which cause Burn effects.
@Bleed Damage
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause a Bleed damage effect on foes. It is considered Ethereal damage but is NOT improved by any elemental stats. NOTE: This stat does not affect skills which cause Bleeding effects.
@Bleed% increase / increased effect of Bleed effects
This is a special scaling stat that affects all types of Bleed effects by increasing their base damage values by a certain percentage.
@Chill Damage
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause additional Frost damage on foes instantly. It is increased by the Frost damage stat, too. NOTE: This stat does not affect skills which cause Chill effects.
@Poison DOT Damage
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause a Poison damage effect on foes. It is considered Poison damage and is increased by the Poison Damage stat, too. NOTE: This stat does not affect skills which cause Poison effects.
@Chain Lightning Damage
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause additional Lightning damage on foes instantly. It is increased by the Lightning damage stat, too.
@Smite
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause additional Holy damage on foes instantly. It is increased by the Holy damage stat, too.
@Blight
This stat is a special damage stat for items which may cause a Shadow damage effect on foes. It is considered Shadow damage and is increased by the Shadow Damage stat, too.
@Satellite Damage
Increases the damage of all Satellite type enchants
@Gem Strength
Increases the strength of all gems socketed into your equipment
@Willpower
Lowers the duration of negative effects on the player, such as damaging debuffs
@Ground Effect Resistance
Lowers the damage taken specifically from ground effects, like burning ground, poison pools, and things like that.
@Indirect Damage Resistance
Lowers the damage taken from any indirect damage, such as bleeds, burns, poisons, and other debuff effects. This also affects damage taken from Thorns, as Thorns is indirect damage!